Answers: <Google Sheet link>

Please answer the below core-java Questions:

A.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Answer:The Runtime Interpreter
       The Compiler
       The Applet Viewer
       The Debugger
       The Class File Disassembler
       The Header and Stub File Generator
       The Documentation Generator
       Applet Demos
       API Source Code

What is IDE?
Ans.Integrated Development Environment
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans.BlueJ.
    Codenvy.
    DrJava.
    Eclipse.
    Greenfoot.
    IntelliJ IDEA.
    JCreator.
    (Oracle) JDeveloper.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans. A thread is goes various way in java life cycle. A thread born,start,run and die.
what is class?
Ans. A class is the blueprint of an object.
What is object?
Ans. A object is the instance of the class.
What is the entry point of an application?
Ans. you have to make the class with an object
Why main is static?
Ans. So it can rum the application without using any instance variable. Also static can call the other members outside of the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans. The interface class or the object class is the superclass of all classes.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans. Path is using for all the jar file and help to setting up the environment for the operating system.
Classpath is using for all the variables to help the environment.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans. In the Interface you just can express the thoughts. Abstract class is the subclass of a class.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans. No,if you wanna make a object you main method. But Interface and Abstract class both doesn't have any main method.
what is Access Specifier?
Ans. Also known as Visibility Specifier.It regulate to access the class, object and method.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans. OOP concepts in Java are the main ideas behind Java’s Object Oriented Programming. They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans. java package is a setspace to organize the related class and interface.three packages are imported by default for each source file. First, the package with no name.
Second, the java.lang package. And third, the current package (the package in which the current file is defined).
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans. API is the set decision protocol and tools for the java application.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans. No It doesn't because it make more confusing.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans. Overloading is you can use 1 object two time the same class.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans. Exception can handle by using try and catch block.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans. The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly. We can apply java static keyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested class
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans. Final is the static keyword whenever you use final in the variables or any method that means you can't use those anymore.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans.Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code,
 it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected
What is a constructor ?
Ans.Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object. Ans the constructor and the class name has to be same.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes we can.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans. If you don't specify a constructor, a default constructor will be generated by the compiler.During the object creation it's called class factory.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans. Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans. Super keyword mean you can inherit and extent from interface and abstract class by calling this keyword. you have to make a construct to call this keyword.
What is JVM stand for ?
Ans. Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
Ans.No
What version of java are you using?
Ans.Java version 8.
What is JAR stand for ?
Ans.Jar is the application file.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans. JDK means Java Development kit and JVM mean Java Virtual Machine
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans.JRE is the Java Runtime Environment – it contains a JVM, among other things, and is what you need to run a Java program.
JDK is the Java Development Kit – it is the JRE, but with javac (which is what you need to compile Java source code) and other programming tools added.
What is compile time and run time?
Ans.Compile time is when the the code covert it for the machine And Runtime is the code is executed.
What is heap?
Ans.The heap is created on virtual machine start-up.
 Heap storage for objects is reclaimed by an automatic storage management system (known as a garbage collector); objects are never explicitly deallocated.
How java manage it's memory?
Ans.The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating memory from the Operating System (OS),
 managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans.The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable. There are many differences between StringBuffer and StringBuilder. ...
 StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. It means two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously
What is Singleton class?
Ans.Singleton Class in Java. In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.
 To design a singleton class: Make constructor as private. Write a static method that has return type object of this singleton class.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans.Serialization and Deserialization in Java. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams.
The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization
when to use transient variable in java?
Ans.transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.
When JVM comes across transient keyword, it ignores original value of the variable and save default value of that variable data type
Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans.difference between a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check condition before iteration of the loop,
whereas do-while loop, checks the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop
What is Enum?
Ans.A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants. More precisely, a Java enum type is a special kind of Java class.
An enum can contain constants, methods etc. Java enums were added in Java 5
What is Iterator?
Ans.public interface Iterator and contains three methods: ... void remove(): It removes the current element in the collection.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans.Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans.Because once you put the value in string you can't change the value without using Stringbuffer.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans.Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.
Constructor chaining can be done in two ways: Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans.both the serial and parallel collectors cause a stop-the-world during the GC.
a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation
What is JIT stands for?
Ans.JIT stands for Just In time compilation and JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans.Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.
 When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans.Being an automatic process, programmers need not initiate the garbage collection process explicitly in the code.
 It can choose to reject the request and so it is not guaranteed that these calls will do the garbage collection
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans.The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans.Reflection is an API that is used to examine or modify the behaviour of methods, classes and interfaces at runtime. The required packages for Reflection
what is multithreading in java?
Ans.Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans.Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.
What is Framework?
Ans.Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem in a specific domain.
You make use of a framework by calling its methods, inheritance, and supplying "callbacks", listeners, or other implementations of the Observer pattern. Constrast to library
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans.Arquillian. Arquillian is a highly innovative and extendible testing platform for JVM that allows developers to easily create automated integration, functional and acceptance tests for Java. ...
    JTest. ...
    The Grinder. ...
    TestNG. ...
    JUnit. ...
    JWalk. ...
    Mockito. ...
    Powermock.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans.For example, TestNG uses test groups, which can categorize tests according to features such as run times. As I said at the beginning of this column,
JUnit 4 and TestNG are similar on the surface. But whereas JUnit is designed to hone in on a unit of code, TestNG is meant for high-level testing.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans.Dependencies are any tasks, events or situations that are either dependent on a previous completion of a task or on which a task is dependent on
what is dependency injection in java?
Ans.In software engineering, dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans.Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime. private ,
final and static methods and variables use static binding and are bonded by compiler while virtual methods are bonded during runtime based upon runtime object
What is Collections Framework?
Ans.The Java collections framework gives the programmer access to prepackaged data structures as well as to algorithms for manipulating them
What is Collection and Collections?
Ans.Collections are used almost in every programming language and when Java arrived, it also came with Collection classes.
Collections are used in situations where data is dynamic.
Explain what is main method?
Ans.Main method is the main door for the application without main method you can't run the program.
What is StringBuffer and String Builder?
Ans.StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable. ...
It means two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously. StringBuilder is non-synchronized i.e. not thread safe
What do you understand by Thread Safe?
Ans.Thread safety is a computer programming concept applicable to multi-threaded code
What are the latest changes in Java 8?
Ans.Lambda expressions
    Method references
    Default Methods (Defender methods)
    A new Stream API.
    Optional
    A new Date/Time API.
    Nashorn, the new JavaScript engine
    Removal of the Permanent Generation
    and more…
What do you understand by default method in Java?
Ans.Default Methods In Java 8. ...
The default methods were introduced to provide backward compatibility so that existing intefaces can use the lambda expressions without implementing the methods in the implementation class.
 Default methods are also known as defender methods or virtual extension methods










